About
=====

`mvre` is a command line utility to systematically rename lots of
files. It uses regular expressions to match POSIX paths and
backreferences to 'copy over' parts of the file path. For a
complete and up-to-date description of the utility's capabilities
and information on its usage, please run it with the `-h` option:

    ./mvre.py -h

Usage Examples
==============

To change all file extensions from `txt` to `tsv`, use one of the
following command alternatives:

    ./mvre.py '(.*)[.]txt' '\1.tsv'
    ./mvre.py '(.*)[.]txt' '$1.tsv'

The `\1` or `$1` is a backreference to the first match group. To
do the same thing using `git mv` instead of `mv`, pass the
`--git` option to `mvre`:

    ./mvre.py --git '(.*)[.]txt' '\1.tsv'
    ./mvre.py --git '(.*)[.]txt' '$1.tsv'

You can also do this across several directories by matching and
back-referencing the directory names:

    ./mvre.py '(.*)/(.*)[.]txt' '\1/\2.tsv'
    ./mvre.py '(.*)/(.*)[.]txt' '$1/$2.tsv'

There are, of course, many more use cases than these few. Use the
`-h` option to get more information about how to use `mvre`.

Platform Compatibility
======================

`mvre` is compatible with all POSIX filesystems. This includes
all distributions of Linux and Mac OS X. `mvre` is mainly
developed for, and has been tested on, Ubuntu.

Please note that this utility will *NEVER* be compatible with
MS Windows, since Windows' path separator (the backslash)
conflicts with the regex escape character.

Dependencies
============

`mvre` requires Python 2.5 or later. (Earlier versions might also
work, but use them at your own risk.)

`mvre` also relies on the Python module `argparse`. It is
available on Debian-based platforms in the package
`python-argparse`. (Please use your favorite web search engine to
find RPM or source code distributions of it.)

Name
====

The name of this utility, `mvre` is composed of the Unix command
`mv` for moving or renaming files, and `re`, which stands for
'regular expressions'.

Bugs
====

There is currently no bug tracker for `mvre`. If you believe to
have found a bug, please send an email to the developer at

    marion.zepf+bug@gmail.com

License
=======

`mvre` is distributed under the BSD License. For the full license
text, please see the file `LICENSE`.
